helx/charts/ambassador/README.md, before:

# ambassador

![Version: 0.1.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.6-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.12.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.12.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for Kubernetes

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| adminservice.type | string | `"ClusterIP"` |  |
| fullnameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| global.ambassador_service_name | string | `"ambassador"` |  |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |  |
| image.repository | string | `"docker.io/datawire/ambassador"` |  |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` |  |
| nameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| replicaCount | int | `1` |  |
| resources.limits.cpu | string | `"250m"` |  |
| resources.limits.memory | string | `"300Mi"` |  |
| resources.requests.cpu | string | `"150m"` |  |
| resources.requests.memory | string | `"130Mi"` |  |
| securityContext.runAsUser | int | `8888` |  |
| service.port | int | `80` |  |
| service.type | string | `"ClusterIP"` |  |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.5.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.5.0)

Commit message:

ambassador chart updated to use ambassador_id
Module resource added for ambassador to go along with the ambassador_id setting.  Added ambassador_id to annotations for ambassador service.  Created a global variable for ambassador_id to be used by ambassador and appstore.

helx/charts/ambassador/README.md, after:

# ambassador

![Version: 0.1.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.1.7-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.12.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.12.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for Kubernetes

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| adminservice.type | string | `"ClusterIP"` |  |
| fullnameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| global.ambassador_id | string | `"ambassador-helx"` | Specify the Ambassador ID (useful if multiple Ambassadors are deployed to the same cluster). |
| global.ambassador_service_name | string | `"ambassador"` |  |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |  |
| image.repository | string | `"docker.io/datawire/ambassador"` |  |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` |  |
| nameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| replicaCount | int | `1` |  |
| resources.limits.cpu | string | `"250m"` |  |
| resources.limits.memory | string | `"300Mi"` |  |
| resources.requests.cpu | string | `"150m"` |  |
| resources.requests.memory | string | `"130Mi"` |  |
| securityContext.runAsUser | int | `8888` |  |
| service.port | int | `80` |  |
| service.type | string | `"ClusterIP"` |  |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.5.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.5.0)
