helx/charts/nginx/README.md, before:

# nginx

A Helm chart for Kubernetes

![Version: 0.2.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.2.6-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.0.13](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.0.13-informational?style=flat-square)

### TLS/SSL

The helm charts will not create the TLS secrets for nginx (`nginxTLSSecret`), by default. If you want to enable TLS, you will either need to create a self-signed certificate, or have an administrator create one for you. To create the secret from an existing certificate:

```
kubectl create secret tls my.domain.org-tls-secret --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key
```

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| DEV_PHASE.dev | bool | `false` |  |
| fullnameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| global.ambassador_service_name | string | `"ambassador"` |  |
| global.dug_search_client_service_name | string | `"dug-search-client"` |  |
| global.dug_web_service_name | string | `"dug-web"` |  |
| global.restartr_api_service_name | string | `"restartr-api-service"` |  |
| http_host | bool | `false` |  |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |  |
| image.repository | string | `"helxplatform/nginx"` |  |
| image.tag | string | `nil` |  |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` |  |
| ingress.annotations | object | `{}` |  |
| ingress.create | bool | `false` |  |
| ingress.host | string | `""` |  |
| ingress.spec.tls | object | `{}` |  |
| nameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| replicaCount | int | `1` |  |
| resources.limits.cpu | string | `"100m"` |  |
| resources.limits.memory | string | `"128Mi"` |  |
| resources.requests.cpu | string | `"50m"` |  |
| resources.requests.memory | string | `"32Mi"` |  |
| restartrApi | bool | `false` |  |
| service.IP | string | `nil` |  |
| service.httpPort | int | `80` |  |
| service.httpTargetPort | int | `8080` |  |
| service.httpsPort | int | `443` |  |
| service.httpsTargetPort | int | `8443` |  |
| service.serverName | string | `"_"` |  |
| service.type | string | `"LoadBalancer"` |  |
| varStorage.claimName | string | `nil` |  |
| varStorage.existingClaim | bool | `false` |  |
| varStorage.storageClass | string | `nil` |  |
| varStorage.storageSize | string | `"2Gi"` |  |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.5.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.5.0)

Commit message:

Add support for using ingress-nginx; no static IP needed

helx/charts/nginx/README.md, after:

# nginx

A Helm chart for Kubernetes

![Version: 0.3.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-0.3.0-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.0.13](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.0.13-informational?style=flat-square)

### TLS/SSL

The helm charts will not create the TLS secrets for nginx (`nginxTLSSecret`), by default. If you want to enable TLS, you will either need to create a self-signed certificate, or have an administrator create one for you. To create the secret from an existing certificate:

```
kubectl create secret tls my.domain.org-tls-secret --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key
```

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| DEV_PHASE.dev | bool | `false` | Set the DEV_PHASE.dev True, if Appstore/Tycho running locally. Else, set it to False |
| fullnameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| global.ambassador_service_name | string | `"ambassador"` |  |
| global.dug_search_client_service_name | string | `"dug-search-client"` |  |
| global.dug_web_service_name | string | `"dug-web"` |  |
| global.restartr_api_service_name | string | `"restartr-api-service"` |  |
| http_host | bool | `false` | For TACC, set this to true and specify the hostname |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |  |
| image.repository | string | `"helxplatform/nginx"` |  |
| image.tag | string | `nil` | Overrides the image tag whose default is the chart appVersion. |
| imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` |  |
| ingress.annotations | object | `{}` |  |
| ingress.create | bool | `false` | Whether to create an Ingress resource or not. New installations of helx should set this to true to avoid needing to request a static IP. |
| ingress.tls.enabled | bool | `true` | Values inserted into the TLS block come from SSL.nginxTLSSecret and service.serverName for backward compatibility |
| nameOverride | string | `""` |  |
| replicaCount | int | `1` |  |
| resources.limits.cpu | string | `"100m"` |  |
| resources.limits.memory | string | `"128Mi"` |  |
| resources.requests.cpu | string | `"50m"` |  |
| resources.requests.memory | string | `"32Mi"` |  |
| restartrApi | bool | `false` |  |
| service.IP | string | `nil` | The static IP for this service, assigned to you by cluster administrators. Ignored if ingress.create=true. |
| service.httpPort | int | `80` |  |
| service.httpTargetPort | int | `8080` |  |
| service.httpsPort | int | `443` |  |
| service.httpsTargetPort | int | `8443` |  |
| service.serverName | string | `"_"` |  |
| service.type | string | `"LoadBalancer"` | can be LoadBalancer or ClusterIP. If ingress.create=true, this setting is ignored and defaulted to ClusterIP |
| varStorage.claimName | string | `nil` |  |
| varStorage.existingClaim | bool | `false` |  |
| varStorage.storageClass | string | `nil` |  |
| varStorage.storageSize | string | `"2Gi"` |  |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.5.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.5.0)
